# osbuilder

Clear Containers guest OS building scripts

## Build guest image ##

### Build a base rootfs ###
The `rootfs` target will generate a directory
called `workdir/rootfs` overwriting duplicate files.

```
sudo -E  make rootfs
```

### (optional) customize clear container rootfs ###
After generate a initial rootfs (previous step) you can 
customize it by adding anything you need to rootfs 
directory.

### Create Clear Container image ###
The `image` target will take the `workload/rootfs` directory
and will generate a guest image named container.img in the workdir
directory compatible with Clear Containers. The `image` target will
not create nor populate the `workdir/rootfs` directory.
We recommend you use the `rootfs` target before using the `image` target.
You can easily change the size of the image using the `IMG_SIZE` environment variable.
See [Environment Variables](#Environment Variables)

```
sudo -E make image
```

### Default packages ###
By default, the root file system for the Clear Containers image is based on
Clear Linux for Intel\* Architecture, but the `workload/rootfs` directory can be
populated with any other source. Next, packages are installed inside
the generated image. You can install extra packages using the
environment variable `EXTRA_PKGS`. See [Environment Variables](#Environment Variables).

- [systemd]
- [hyperstart]
- [clear-containers-agent]
- cc-oci-runtime-extras
- coreutils-bin
- systemd-bootchart
- iptables-bin

#### Clear Linux based packages security limitations  ####

Clear Linux is not an rpm-based Linux distribution and
the rpm packages are not signed, so there is no way
to ensure that downloaded packages are trustworthy.

If you are willing to use Clear Linux based images, we encourage you
to use the Clear Containers images provided from its website
https://download.clearlinux.org/current/.

## Build guest kernel ##

Clear Containers uses the Linux kernel, you can build a
kernel compatible with Clear Containers using the make
`kernel` target. This will clone the [Clear Container Kernel]
if the directory `workdir/linux` does not exist, then will build it.
On success the new kernel will be located in
workdir/vmlinux.container


```
#Pull and setup latest kernel for Clear Containers
sudo -E make kernel-src
sudo -E make kernel
```

## Use new generated kernel and image with cc-oci-runtime ##

To use the new generated kernel or image copy the defaults file:

```
sudo mkdir -p /etc/cc-oci-runtime
sudo cp /usr/share/defaults/cc-oci-runtime/vm.json /etc/cc-oci-runtime/vm.json
```

And modify the paths for your new kernel and image:

```
{
	"vm": {
		"path": "QEMU PATH...",
		"image": "FULL IMAGE NAME ",
		"kernel": {
			"path": "FULL KERNEL NAME",
			"parameters": "CMDLINE .."
		}
	}
}
```

## Requirements

### Dependencies
In order to work `osbuilder` scripts require the following programs:

- dnf or yum
- qemu-img
- parted
- gdisk
- make
- gcc
- bc
- git

### Using osbuilder scripts with docker

If you don't want to install all the dependencies in your system to run
osbuilder scripts you can also run them in docker. To run osbuilder scripts
inside a docker container the following requirements must be met:

1. Docker 1.12+ installed
2. `runc` is configured as default runtime

 You can check if `runc` is the default runtime running:

 ```
 docker info | grep 'Default Runtime: runc'
 ```

3. Export USE_DOCKER variable

```
export USE_DOCKER=true
```

4. Use osbuilder makefile targets as described in [Build guest image](#Build-guest-image)

Example:
```
export USE_DOCKER=true
#Download Clear Containers guest base rootfs
sudo -E make rootfs
#Build an image with the conent generated by 'make rootfs'
sudo -E image
```


## Limitations

Using `osbuilder` with ubuntu 14.06 fails because an old version of rpm. You can still use it
exporting `USE_DOCKER` variable see [how to use docker](#Using-osbuilder-scripts-with-docker).


## Environment Variables

* `IMG_SIZE`: Image size. By default this value is 50M.
* `EXTRA_PKGS`: The list of extra packages to install separated by spaces, for example "a b c". By default this values is empty.
* `REPO_URL`: The repository URL. By default this value is "https://download.clearlinux.org/current/x86_64/os/"


[systemd]: <https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/>

[hyperstart]: <https://github.com/clearcontainers/hyperstart>

[clear-containers-agent]: <https://github.com/clearcontainers/agent>

[Clear Container Kernel]: <https://github.com/clearcontainers/linux>
